# Contributing

Contributions and pull requests are welcome. If you wish to contribute, please
open a new issue first and make it known that you 
are working on it. I indend on supporting this project 
for the forseeable future and will attempt to merge 
pull requests as often as my schedule permits.

If you find a bug, please create a new issue and tag 
it as such. Additionally, please provide the 
version of the package you found the bug, the desired
behavior, the actual behavior, and any steps 
needed to reproduce the said behavior.

Please run `make lint` and fix any outlying issues before
opening a pull request.

## Project Layout

### bin

Contains executable programs and examples.

### docs

Documentation for the project. These are autogenerated by `pdoc` by
running:
> make docs

### cvgui

Package containing the project's source code.

This project uses a 
[hexagonal architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexagonal_architecture_(software)) 
(also called "ports and adapters" architecture)
such that it can more easily support a varied array of inputs, graphical
outputs, and feedback devices. Core business logic is stored in
sub-packages under the `core` package. These include:
- `displaying`: Interfaces and logic for displaying data
- `receiving`: Interfaces and logic for data input
<!-- - `providing_feedback`: Interfaces and logic for providing feedback to user -->
<!-- - `logging`: Interfaces and logic for logging  -->

The interfaces ("Protocols" in Python) in these core packages define
"ports", or standards that need to be met in order to interact with the 
program. By implementing these interfaces, concrete classes create 
"adapters" that allow them to "plug in" to the project. 

The rest of the packages under `cvgui` provide adapters to the ports
defined in `core`. For instance, the `user_interface` package provides
graphical user interface implementations that conform to the `displaying`
core package port (found under `core/displaying/service.py`).

## Setup

To begin development, first ensure that your python version is 3.9 or greater by running:
> python --version

Then, create a virtual environment...

Windows:

> python -m venv env
>
> ./env/Scripts/activate

Linux:

> python -m venv env
>
> source ./env/bin/activate

And install the package in editable mode by running:

> pip install -e .

(The -e option makes it so any changes you make to the package are reflected
at runtime and you don't have to re-install the package every time)

To test and see if everything worked correctly, make sure you have a webcam plugged in and run:

> python ./bin/examples/working_example.py

To run the test program.

<!-- ## tests

lol -->